There are many assembly tools, but none of them is perfect. Biologists therefore need to evaluate the quality of various assemblers by comparing their results. In our case, once we have run the SPAdes assembler on a set of reads, we need to test the quality of the resulting assembly.

**Contig**: A contiguous segment of the genome that has been reconstructed by an assembly algorithm

**Scaffold**: An ordered sequence of contigs (possibly separated by gaps between them) that are reconstructed by an assembly algorithm. The order of contigs in a correctly assembled scaffold corresponds to their order in the genome. Existing assemblers specify the approximate lengths of gaps between contigs in a scaffold.

**N50 statistic**: N50 is a statistic that is used to measure the quality of an assembly. N50 is defined as the maximal contig length for which all contigs greater than or equal to that length comprise at least half of the sum of the lengths of all the contigs. For example, consider the five toy contigs with the following lengths: [10, 20, 30, 60, 70]. Here, the total length of contigs is 190, and contigs of length 60 and 70 account for at least 50% of the total length of contigs (60 + 70 = 130), but the contig of length 70 does not account for 50% of the total length of contigs. Thus, N50 is equal to 60.

**NG50 statistic**: The NG50 length is a modified version of N50 that is defined when the length of the genome is known (or can be estimated). It is defined as the maximal contig length for which all contigs of at least that length comprise at least half of the length of the genome. NG50 allows for meaningful comparisons between different assemblies for the same genome. For example, consider the five toy contigs we considered previously: [10, 20, 30, 60, 70]. These contigs only add to 190 nucleotides, but say that we know that the genome from which they have been generated has length 300. In this example, the contigs of length 30, 60, and 70 account for at least 50% of the genome length (30 + 60 + 70 = 160); but the contigs of length 60 and 70 no longer account for at least 50% of the genome length (60 + 70 = 130). Thus, NG50 is equal to 30.

**NGA50 statistic**: If we already know a reference genome for a species, then we can test the accuracy of a newly assembled genome against this reference. The NGA50 statistic is a modified version of NG50 accounting for assembly errors (called **misassemblies**). To compute NGA50, errors in the contigs are accounted for by comparing contigs to a reference genome. All of the misassembled contigs are broken at **misassembly breakpoints**, resulting in a larger number of contigs with the same total length. For example, if there is a missasembly breakpoint at position 10 in a contig of length 30, this contig will be broken into contigs of length 10 and 20.

NGA50 is calculated as the NG50 statistic for the set of contigs resulting after breaking at misassembly breakpoints. For example, consider our example before, for which the genome length is 300. If the largest contig in [10, 20, 30, 60, 70] is broken into two contigs of length 20 and 50 (resulting in the set of contigs [10, 20, 20, 30, 50, 60]), then. contigs of length 20, 30, 50, and 60 account for at least 50% of the genome length (20 + 30 + 50 + 60 = 160). But contigs of length 30, 50, and 60 do not account for at least 50% of the genome length (30 + 50 + 60 = 140). Thus, NGA50 is equal to 20.

Consider the following three statistics:
- N50.
- The number of **long contigs**, i.e., contigs with length ≥ 1000 nucleotides. Biologists are mainly interested in long contigs and often discard short contigs, since short contigs often harbor only fragments of genes rather than complete genes.
- The total length of long contigs. This statistic can be combined with N50 and the number of long contigs; a good assembly is one that has relatively few long contigs, but the total length of long contigs is high, as is N50.
